	ANS Forth for MC680x0 or SPARC (or C!)
	by John R. Hayes
	Johns Hopkins University / Applied Physics Laboratory

1. Copying
   This is free software but it is not public domain software.
   You can use this for your work freely.
   You cannot give the system to anyone.  There are several reasons for
this.  ANS Forth is not a standard yet and could change.  I don't want
a copy of this system to lurk on someone's disk for several years, then
cause problems because my 'ANS Forth' doesn't conform to the final release
of the standard.  It has also been argued that the plethora of free
Forth systems available have hurt the image of the language, either because
they were poorly implemented or poorly documented.  I do not want to
contribute to this perception.  I use this Forth system for I my own
work and it is adequate for my needs.  However, I do not have the time
to add features that others may deem essential, but that I don't need,
or to provide the level of documentation available in commercial
Forth systems.

2. Compilation
   Compilation of the system occurs in three steps:

A: Compile bootstrap compiler.
	% cd meta
	% make 
	Optionally, to free disk space.
	% make clean
	% cd ..

B: Configure for your system.
	Configure for a generic C system.  This edits the makefile
	so you don't have to.
	% config
	If you have a 68k machine (e.g. Sun 3), or sparc machine
	(e.g. Sun 4), or have GNU C, type
	config mc68020, config sparc, or config gnuc instead.
	On machines in which the generic C version fails, there may be
	a workaround; look for specific machines listed in the config
	script.

C: Compile Forth system.
	% make jhforth
	% make install
	Optionally, to free disk space.
	% make clean

3. Documentation
   Since this is an ANS Forth system, the standards document is a suitable
reference.  There is some additional information in the doc directory
describing unique features of the system; the documentation is in LaTeX
format.  To format it:
	% cd doc
	% latex jhforth
	% latex gloss
You may also want to look in the file named 'bugs'.

4. Other business
   This is a work in progress.  Numerous pieces of the system are
experimental; if it isn't mentioned in the documentation, don't count
on it being present in future versions.
   The system has been tested on Sun 3, Sun 4, MIPS, and Apollo (68k)
systems.  The Sun 3 and Sun 4 systems are partially written in assembly
language and are faster than the C versions on those machines.
   Source code specific to the SPARC is in the sparc directory, 68k
code is in the mc68020 directory, and code for a Heurikon stand-alone
CPU board is in hk68 (not maintained).  There is also a C version in
directory cmach.  To save disk space, you can delete any of these
directories that your system doesn't use.  For example, SPARC users can
delete the 68k directories.

   Report bugs to john.hayes@jhuapl.edu
